So what we're going
to do now is I'm
going to show you
a bunch of examples
of how to implement custom
nonconcurrent collectors.
So if you recall
before, I showed you
how there were predefined
nonconcurrent collectors that
came out of the box with the
Java class library, the JDK.
And now we're going
to show you how
to use some of the mechanisms
that are provided out
of the box to implement an
open-ended number of custom,
nonconcurrent collectors.
And we're going to do
this in the context
of several
nonconcurrent collectors
that we use in our
SimpleSearchStream program.
So let's start by
taking a look at how
we could use the Collector.of
factory method to implement
custom collectors that
have very simple, very
pithy lambda expression
implementations.
These are the kinds of things
where Collector.of really
excels.
It's very-- very
concise, very simple.
As we'll see, as you get
more complicated collectors,
we don't want to glom them
all into the of interface.
It's a little too
simple for its own good.
So as you'll see here,
this is actually used
by the toString method in
the search results class,
in order to be able to create
the formatted output that we're
seeing displayed here.
So the search results
toString method
will end up using
this custom collector
to format the output to put
a vertical bar between each
of the indices.
So you can sort of tell
them apart from each other,
make it a little easier to read
what the output looks like.
So let's take a look and see how
this is actually going to work.
This is also another
interesting example
of a stream that
has a factory method
to create the stream, no
intermediate operations,
followed by the collect
terminal operation.
As you can see here,
we take the list
of elements that corresponded
to the result list.
This is basically
the list of things
that had the appropriate
elements that corresponded
to where we found the
words in the input
that we're researching
in the input string,
in the lyrics for Do-Re-Mi
song, for example.
We turn that into a stream.
And then we collect it,
and we use Collector.of
to define the collector to use.
And this is going to use the
five parameter of version,
although as we'll see, one of
the parameters is optional.
So we don't pass it in.
Here's the lambda supplier.
What we're going to do is
we're going to make ourselves
a new StringJoiner, which
will be our mutable result
container.
And as you can see,
StringJoiner is
going to be given a parameter,
which is the vertical bar.
And that indicates what
to put between each string
in the StringJoiner.
That's how we're going to end
up with our nicely formatted
output.
Here's the accumulator.
The accumulator is a biconsumer
that adds a new string
to the Joiner.
So we take the Joiner, and
we take the new result,
and we say Joiner.add, and we
convert the result to a string.
So that'll turn into
the appropriate string,
which is, as you can see
there, what will be displayed.
So that's the accumulator.
And of course the add method
will put the vertical bar
in the right place
in the string.
We then have the
StringJoiner merge method
passed as the combiner.
That, of course, can be used to
combine StringJoiners together.
As I mentioned a
number of times,
this is only ever used
for parallel streams,
not for sequential streams.
And then we have a finisher.
And the finisher we have
takes the StringJoiner
and converts it
back into a string.
So what we'll end up with
when all is said and done
from a call to the
toString method,
is a new string that has all
the results, which are integers
separated by vertical bars.
So that's what it looks like.
Notice that even though
this was the five parameter
version of of, we only had
to pass four parameters,
since the characteristics,
dot, dot, dot,
is an optional parameter.
And we didn't want to
pass anything there,
so we didn't have to pass it.
Let's now go ahead
and take a look
at how to implement
another example
of a nonconcurrent collector.
This one comes from
the WordSearcher class
that we talked about from the
SimpleSearchStream program.
And this is its
toDownstreamCollector method.
And if you go back
and watch that video,
you'll see how that gets used.
That was in discussion about
visualizing the WordSearcher
[? printSuffixSlice ?] method.
So to.DownstreamCollector
is a factory method.
It creates a
downstream collector
that merges result
lists together
to make things a little
bit more concise and easier
to deal with.
As you can see
here, what we do is
we create a collector that's
going to take in a search
results object--
a search result type.
We're going to have a
stream of search results.
We're going to create
an accumulator that
will accumulate things into
a list of SearchResult result
objects.
And that's what's going to
be returned as the return
value of this collector.
So that's basically what
the generic parameters
are to the collector
that we show above that's
called toDownstreamCollector.
Internally, we use the
Collector.of factory method
to make a new collector.
This one uses the
four-parameter version of of.
And again, we only have
to pass three parameters,
because characteristics
is basically
an optional parameter, and
we don't need to use it.
Here's what we do.
We create a mutable
result container,
which is implemented,
as is often the case,
with an array list, because
that works quite well.
That's what the
supplier-- that's
the supplier lambda or supplier
method that's passed in here.
Down here you can see how we
define a lambda expression that
will accumulate the result
objects from a given
SearchResult results object into
the results list accumulator.
So all we do there is we simply
say, result list-- that's RL--
dot addAll.
And we take the results list
from the current search result,
and we simply append it to
the end of the results list.
So that's what the accumulator
lambda expression does.
And then the third and
final parameter we passed of
is just a combiner.
We wouldn't use this unless
we use parallel streams.
And as always, we use this to
merge the results list into--
two results list into
a single results list.
So that's basically how
the implementation works.
Again, you can see that we
only had to provide the three
parameters here,
because characteristics
is an optional
parameter and can be
admitted without any problem.
Now, if you're doing simple
implementations, like I just
showed you, for
DownstreamCollector
and the toString method
for SearchResults,
what I showed you here
works perfectly fine.
If you're doing more
complicated collectors,
as we will do when
we get further
along into our FuturesCollector,
when we talk about Java
Completable.Futures,
futures, then you probably
need to implement the
collector interface directly,
rather than trying to come
up with a wacky set of lambda
expressions to pass into the
Collector.of factory method.
You could do it, but
it would be ugly.
So when we get to that
part of the course later,
you'll see how that all works.
There's lots of other good
information about custom
collectors available online.
My friend and colleague,
Angelika Langer,
has a nice video
that you can watch
at this link that talks about
the differences between reduce
and collect.
And it goes through great
detail and talks about collect.
It's several hours long.
I will cover a lot of
the material in her video
later when we talk
about parallel streams.
But it's worth a
listen, if you're really
interested in
learning a lot more
about these fascinating features
in the Java Streams framework
for combining results
together, in this case,
for nonconcurrent collection.